Hoje me deparei com essa citação, que foi impulsionada pelo Caio no Mastodon:

>♪♫ "Anyone can make the simple complicated. Creativity is making the complicated simple."  
>— Charles Mingus

[Charles Mingus](https://pt.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Mingus) foi um músico do jazz, mas a citação se aplica ao mundo da otimização de sistemas, da resolução de problemas e da melhoria contínua, e por isso não quis deixar de registrar: é muito mais fácil, de fato, **complicar** do que simplificar...

…

#sites Hoje encontrei o  [Fuck, I wish I knew that](https://fuckiwishiknewth.at/). Trata-se de um site criado por  [Piet Terheyden](https://twitter.com/PietTerheyden), cofundador do [Literal.club](https://literal.club) — coincidentemente o serviço que usei para substituir o Goodreads —, onde ele cataloga (de forma irregular, segundo ele) conteúdo bom de conhecer e interessante dos arredores da internet.

Pelos poucos links que já visitei pude comprovar a qualidade. Pensando bem, faz falta a existência de mais pessoas que façam isso, essa *curadoria*. Sei que isso pode ser feito via redes do fediverse, como o próprio Mastodon, *mas também gosto da ideia do Piet*, e do site que ele criou pra isso.

…

#video [Could the Cordyceps Fungus Really Take Over](https://youtube.com/watch?v=jM5jf-8ekVA&feature=share) is a video from the **Real Science** YouTube channel I watched tonight. It was published on October, 2021, before HBO's "The Last of Us" series, but many years after the videogame franchise, released in 2013.

The video was very interesting — it contains an excellent explanation about the *Cordyceps* fungi, and its capacity to affect insects' behavior, mostly ants, turning them into real zombies without free will, at the service of the parasite's life cycle. 

According to the video, although the cordyceps fungus may never bring about the zombie apocalypse for humans, our actions and behaviors may still be influenced by a parasitic force — one that doesn't have our best interest at its heart: its name is **toxoplasma gondii**.

Toxoplasma gondii is a protozoan able to infect any warm-blooded animal, but especially mice, because the only animal that the parasite can reproduce in are domestic cats. When mice are infected, their instinctual fear of the odor of cats is *reversed*, making mice remain more time in places where there are cats — making their chance to be eaten by cats much more likely. If eaten along with the mice, the parasite gets into the cat's system and its lifecycle gets to complete.

Although humans are not prey to domestic cats, the video argues that this situation was very different to our ancestors, who could effectively become food for the big cats, like Leopards. Thus, there could lie a threat for humans, should *toxoplasma gondii* evolve its *powers* over human beings...

