Ouvi o episódio [Will AR Glasses Die Like Google Glass?](https://techwontsave.us/episode/152_will_ar_glasses_die_like_google_glass_w_quinn_myers) do podcast **Tech Won't Save Us**, comandado pelo jornalista **Paris Marx**, em que ele entrevista **Quinn Myers**, autor de um livro recente que conta a história — *ascensão* (?) e queda — do Google Glass, óculos de realidade virtual cujo desenvolvimento e lançamento foi uma obsessão direta de **Sergei Brin**, um dos fundadores do Google.

#### Anotações:

> We’ll start with why Google pursued it, and that is because Apple had just blown the world away with the iPhone. The iPhone was new and everyone was buying. It wasn’t as ubiquitous as it is now, but it was the new hot thing. So Google came up with Glass around 2012. They started working on it when they saw the iPhone just blowing people away.

Quando se lança um produto, tenta-se resolver um problema existente com esse produto. Mas logo de cara o único problema a resolver parece ter sido o do próprio Google (como correr atrás da Apple e de seu sucesso imediato logo após terem lançado o iPhone em 2012). 

> let’s make a big swing at AR; we will replace phones. Their idea was a one screen per person thing, like we’ll replace TVs, laptops, and phones.

O que o Google estava querendo fazer era transformar a AR na "próxima grande coisa", fazer com que houvesse uma única tela pra cada pessoa, substituindo a televisão, os laptops e os celulares.

> Everyone will use this AR because this is what we’ve seen in science fiction, and we think this is what people want.

E aqui houve um erro de premissa: só porque as pessoas já tinham visto óculos fantásticos em ficção científica, isso não quer dizer que estivessem preparadas para um óculos de AR na vida real. Foi algo muito à frente do tempo, mesmo vindo do Google.

> The end result was a clunky, heavy augmented reality glasses that worked and was kind of cool in a vacuum where it had a little display in the upper right hand corner.


> The problem was it was a beta product. They sold it, or pitched it, to the public as a finished product. It was not. The marketing was awful; the rollout was terrible. It was a huge meltdown, just a  wildly in public tech meltdown for the ages. This was back in the Twitter and media heyday, when Gawker was still around, and Twitter was fun. Everyone was dunking on it and it was great. Then it went away, except for enterprise. Google transitioned Glass to being an enterprise version to stick on poor workers.


> It brings to mind when Mark Zuckerberg said something similar a couple years ago, and everyone was like: Why would you text someone when you’re talking to them? That would be so rude. It’s funny to see how these narratives repeat and come back and how they don’t seem to want to learn anything from previous experiences.

Esse comentário do Paris Marx remete ao fato de que atualmente empresas como o Facebook estão tentando reviver a AR (eles até têm uma parceria com a Rayban) e embora possam ter aprendido uma lição ou outra a partir do Google Glass, não aprenderam tudo.


> So people who follow the industry will be very knowledgeable about Google and their moonshots, this Google X, this top-secret, crazy agency where they’re just taking their moonshots, which they branded them. It was just them throwing a ton of money at big projects that they think the world needed solving.

O Google Glass veio ao mundo como um dos projetos do Google X, uma espécie de _agência secreta_ da empresa onde apenas os projetos mais audaciosos eram criados e executados.

> There’s a whole laundry list of these moonshots that they went out on and said the angle is: We’re doing this because we have the money and we have the smartest people on the earth. These are the problems that society needs solved, so we’re going go out and do it. People are like: Yeah, good job, Google. We love you! This is great.

O Google X tinha uma enorme lista de projetos justificados com a premissa de "vamos fazer porque temos dinheiro, temos as pessoas mais inteligentes e porque estes são todos problemas que a sociedade precisa que nós resolvamos pra ela". E as pessoas normalmente reagiam dizendo "bom trabalho, Google, amamos vocês por isso".

> They went after these huge projects where a lot of them failed — I would say probably all of them failed in some capacity. The takeaway from the book and in general is these aren’t altruistic projects. Google profits from more parts of the earth having internet; Google profits from everyone replacing their iPhone with your augmented reality. So people realize that as Glass melted down. They’re like: Oh, these aren’t things that need solved.

Não vou dizer que não possa haver altruísmo nas grandes empresas de tecnologia. Mas claro que nunca é o primeiro pensamento das big techs, porque simplesmente não existe almoço grátis: se instalam internet em regiões remotas, é para lucrarem mais; se criam carros que se dirigem sozinhos é para monitorar seu trajeto e direcionar anúncios e outros dados — e se criam um óculos de realidade aumentada é para acabar com o uso dos iPhones, aumentar o grau de *surveillance* sobre as pessoas, invadir (_ainda mais_) nossa privacidade e lucrar com absolutamente todo e qualquer dado coletado: desde por onde andamos até com quem conversamos e fazemos o que.

> Elon Musk is using the same narratives now as Starlink saying: We’re putting all these satellites in space. Sure, it might create a whole load of risks and cause us to see satellites all the time when they’re going up there to distract from our view of the night sky, but we’re going to give internet to the global south and that is what is going to create a whole load of opportunities. This is the narrative as old as the internet itself.

E o Elon Musk e seu Starlink vão na mesma linha, usando a mesma estratégia.

> So one of the my favorite things Sebastian Thrun told me was that ==if he could do it all again, he would only make it and market it as sunglasses because that way you couldn’t wear them and creep people out in romantic dinner. You could only wear them outside. It would be seen as a GoPro, like a camera that you wear as a GoPro.== At the time, Google — specifically Sergey Brin who was very hands on on this project — wanted it to be something people wore all day. They wanted to market it as a piece of high fashion where they put it on models in huge fashion shows on the runway.

Um ponto interessante é a forma como o Glass foi promovido graças ao Sergey Brin, cofundador do Google: como algo a ser usado o dia todo, como um acessório da moda, com que até modelos circulariam. Já Sebastian Thrun, um dos idealizadores do Google X, quando foi entrevistado pelo Quinn Myers, disse que se pudesse começar tudo de novo, promoveria o Google Glasses como óculos escuros para uso externo, tal como uma GoPro, para tornar o *gadget* menos assustador.

> When it finally came out, the batteries didn’t last long. The batteries got hot. Sometimes they could record maybe 10 seconds at a time. They were clunky, slow, they broke down — so there’s a real divide about what Glass could actually do and what Google was trying to pitch it as being capable of.

Quando finalmente foram lançados, houve uma divisão de opiniões depois que se observou o produto, com sua bateria que não durava quase nada e que esquentava demais, lentidão e tamanho: o que o óculos do Google realmente era em relação ao que estava sendo anunciado pela empresa?

> Because they didn’t want you looking at your iPhone, they wanted to replace the mobile phone, so you’re just wearing your set of glasses. [...] and the way that we’re going to replace it is by sticking a camera and a computer on your face, and that’s going to be so much better.

O Google não queria ninguém com um iPhone. Queria substituí-lo por um óculos com câmera e computador colado no nossos rosto, dizendo que isso seria muito melhor.

> Then it doesn’t come out for like a year. They kept pushing the deadline on when it’s going to come out.

Aí o produto fica um ano inteiro sem ser lançado, e seus prazos começam a ser continuamente postergados.

> So eventually, it comes out and people pay $1500 for this groundbreaking piece of technology that’s going to change the world. Everyone’s very excited. Then they put it on and it doesn’t do anything they promised, at all. Google tries to say: Oh, it’s a beta product; we’re trying to do this like we do our software; you’re a unique set of beta testers. You guys just use it and then tell us what’s wrong and how to fix it. 

Quando o Google Glass é finalmente lançado, seu preço é de USD 1500. As pessoas se animam com o *gadget* revolucionário que mudará o mundo — até descobrirem que ele não faz *absolutamente nada* do que foi prometido pelo Google.

A empresa tenta se justificar, dizendo que o Google Glass é um *beta*, e que, assim como fazem normalmente com seus softwares, os usuários do Glass serão os *beta testers*, que dirão o que há de errado e como consertar.

> That’s also not how Google marketed it — they marketed it as a thing that models and celebrities wear, and as a finished product that’s going to navigate you to your friends and stuff. But it doesn’t do that.

Só que não foi assim que o Google fez a propaganda dos seus óculos: afinal, deveriam ser algo que modelos e celebridades usariam, um produto finalizado, pronto para o mercado, capaz de levar você até seus amigos e permitir que *coisas sejam feitas*. Exceto que o Google Glasses não faz nada.

> No, this is dumb, and Google screwed up and you shouldn’t buy these. No one wants these, and they don’t really fix any problems. The narrative turned against Google a little bit. So that’s how they came out. It was a bumpy road, to say the least.

A narrativa se volta contra o Google, depois que as pessoas começam a se dar conta que o seu novo *gadget* **não resolve problema algum de fato**.

> In the meantime, Google is coming out with Glass, which is about a $1,500 piece of technology. At this point, people were breaking the tech down and saying: Well, it shouldn’t really cost this much. There’s no reason it should cost as much. We think it would cost around probably $800, $900, about the same as an iPhone for Google to make profit. But this  is something that Google people told me for the book, was that they priced it high because they wanted it to seem like a luxury product that only like the rich and powerful would wear so that people would be like: Oh, wow! I need this to appear rich and powerful.


> So suddenly, it becomes a symbol of the very people who are pushing people out of San Francisco, not to mention that there’s a camera on it. That’s freaking people out — they don’t know they’re being recorded in public. So suddenly, if you couldn’t tell them from their North Face quarter zips, bookbags walking around San Francisco, suddenly, they’re wearing this big, stupid pair of augmented reality glasses that people know don’t really do anything and are overpriced, but they’re wearing them around anyways. That’s when people start to demand that they take Glass off and it really pushes this over into physical altercations because people are justifiably angry at this exact type of dude who’s pushing people out of their homes.


> what’s the divide here because as the product is announced as this beta, 8,000 or 10,000 pairs of glasses have become available. There’s this group of enthusiasts that get really excited about it that are like: I’m moving into the future. I am getting these glasses from Google, you can tell I’m an early adopter, blah blah blah. But then on the other hand, there are people who are concerned about privacy. There are people who are concerned about the other implications of this. How quickly is there this divide between the enthusiasts and the critics, or the people who are concerned? How quickly does that emerge after the product is announced and put out there?


> So when it first comes out, there’s a little window of time where I talked to a lot of Glass explorers, to be known as Glassholes — the infamous Glassholes. They’re the ones who got Glass and were wearing it around. They told me there was a week, maybe a couple of weeks, of time where they’re wearing it around the city and people would be like: Oh my gosh, is that Glass? That’s so cool. Can you do this? Can you do that? Can you scan my face? Basically, just walking up and wanting to try it, being very curious and excited about it. But then the tide turns, I think specifically, when people start to realize that it can’t do what it’s supposed to do.


> Suddenly, Glass is another symbol of you siphoning data of your life to who knows — a backdoor to whoever wants to see where you’ve been walking around, who you’ve been talking to, maybe what you’ve been saying, who you’ve been seeing. So, people are really freaked out about it, and then there’s the camera where people think they’re being recorded in public space, very isolating to the public sphere. It’s the camera that really freaks people out. They don’t want to be recorded in public; they don’t want to be out to eat and not know if this guy sitting at the table across from them is recording them and everything they’re saying. That’s when people really start to turn against these Glass explorers who are wearing them.


> They’re still trying to push it as the next big thing that cool people wear and going to help your life. But at this point, people are questioning: What problems does this actually solve? The people who are wearing this are people we hate. At the time, they try to come out against us. They try to come out with etiquette guides for people who wear Glass saying: Don’t record people. If people ask you what they do, don’t say they can scan faces. If people ask you take them off, just take them off. But it’s very snarky and aimed at people who have concerns about Glass, like making fun of people.


> At the time, Google is a huge monolithic company, but people generally viewed them positively. They’re like: No, look, they’re doing these moonshots because they care about society. They want to address, they’re gonna use their money and power for good.


> Correct, the ‘Don’t be evil era.’ And people lapped that up. Gawker was critical of it the whole time, and they were very critical about Google. They were right on how Google was changing how they treat your data at the time, they were right on top of that. Gawker connected the dots between that and what Glass could do, or how Glass could leak data, or what stuff they could do.


> It also coincided with investors in Google were being like: Why are we spending all this money on this thing that everybody hates? This is dumb. Why aren’t we buying more companies like Nest, the smart thermostats, which is immediately making money for us and while we’re throwing money at these moonshots? No one’s really watching over them, or critical of the choices they make, or the things they do. And that’s when, shortly after Glass’s public failure, they reorganized under Alphabet and totally restructured the company, shuttered a ton of the moonshots, and were like: We’re going to refocus how we spend our money here. The investors are mad and the markets are responding. So, money talks, I guess.

Aqui temos o último prego do caixão, quando os investidores do Google (finalmente?) começam a questionar o porque de continuarem a investir tubos de dinheiro em algo que não traz benefício a curto ou médio prazo, quando outros investimentos dão retorno mais certo.


> You talked about the larger wearable space and how that becomes something, post-Google Glass, these companies get into smartwatches. Now we’re seeing more of them experiment with glasses. We had Snapchat with its sunglasses with a little camera in them. Of course, Facebook is trying to move into glasses now as well — it has a partnership with Ray Ban.


> I think that, in a lot of ways, they haven’t learned their lessons at all. To the broader point that they tried to sell this vision of a world where everyone’s wearing augmented reality and people wholly rejected that. They just don’t believe that’s true and they’re going to continue on headstrong because they still believe that this is the next big thing. I will say that the marketing eyeglass was just awful — just generally head-scratching at points. I do think that they learned a few crafty lessons and how Google was pitched and how it was marketed, how it was sold. The AR Ray Bans came out very quietly, they were like: These are sunglasses you can post to social media and posted a little videos.
Compare that to how Glass came out, crickets, way quieter.


> You’ll see this in Apple’s AR, which they’re coming out with. They lead the story with you can wear these and go to another country and it’ll translate right in front of you. People are like: Oh, cool, that’s awesome. Glass didn’t have anything. They just came out and was like: This is great. You’re going to love it. Trust us. But it didn’t work.


> One thing I kept thinking of when I was writing this was the Google Home. If you remember when it first came out, people were like: Oh, no, I’m not gonna put this in my home. They’re going to record everything I say. Then after that initial pushback, tons of people have Google Home. You don’t hear any privacy concerns. They just weathered the storm, didn’t give it any oxygen and assumed we could just continue pushing this, and pushing this until people accepted buying an Alexa. My remote has voice control. I’ve never used it once — I don’t know who uses it — but there are constantly pops ups, like: Tell Alexa to play Netflix. I’d rather just use buttons, but they’ve gotten craftier and more adept at getting products to further infiltrating people’s private lives without causing a lot of public attention. Basically, just scary.


> You can see that same desire in Apple Watch when it is coming out. They’re showing it to Anna Wintour and Karl Lagerfeld, and bringing it to the runways. It’s featured in Vogue, and similar sorts of things. They have a particular audience that they want to sell it to — that they want to associate it with. Then after that, it becomes more of a health and fitness product, because they find that there’s a much larger market there. We see Facebook working with Ray Ban, in order to put its Stories glasses out there. So I find that really interesting to see those parallels, as these wearables become more common. We basically see a repetition of some of the things that Glass tried and maybe failed, but these other companies are working on and trying to use in their own pitches to get us to adopt these products.


> The wearables moving into health is another fascinating thing to me because people caught on when people are like: Oh, I can track my heart rate or I can track my sleep using this. It’s not about just like having the next Apple thing. I just constantly wonder about this with VR and AR, they cannot find a use case that people really care about.


> It doesn’t do anything better than your phone does and doesn’t do anything new, and it doesn’t help you track your personal health at all. So what does it do? It’s just a question that they still struggle to solve. I don’t think there is an answer, but I don’t think they care. The potential payload on cracking the code to augmented reality or virtual reality or XR, as in extended reality, is untold profits, if they can get people to buy in.


> In seeing the reaction to the metaverse and what Facebook or Meta is trying to push on us has been really instructive in seeing that people just think it’s a total joke. People don’t take it seriously. People are like: I’m not going to live my life in the metaverse, Mark Zuckerberg, I don’t know what you’re getting on with.


> We also saw that recently with cryptocurrencies and Web3, and the metaverse where there was criticism from the get-go. Even though the media was open to the idea that this could be the future, initially, it very quickly turned when it seemed the public had turned against it as well.


> Today when it comes to crypto and the metaverse, I don’t know if I’m cynical and in how the media ecosystem has been like hollowed out, it’s not as strong. Tech has positioned itself where the media is almost reliant on it to survive. Twitter isn’t what it used to be, obviously, and social media is in a weird fractured place. So I don’t know. There’s been a lot of people making fun of the metaverse and their lack of legs, and their big rollouts. There’s a lot of jokes to be had, and maybe it’s just because billionaires are a little more megalomaniac than they used to be, but they are not stopping. I don’t know if they tank the company to try to do it, and then that tanks the entire economy, or what, but we’re in a different space now than we were back then.
