> Since the beginning, Musk has been a terrible boss who expected his workers to be, as he calls it now, “hardcore.”


> Musk is trying to rerun the playbook for his old finance company by grafting it onto a completely unrelated business. Not to mention that the industry today is very different than in the late 1990s. PayPal and Square are dominant players, there are plenty of other money-transfer apps and online banks, and traditional banks have continually improved their online services. Why would anyone use Twitter — not traditionally the most reliable company — when they can just keep using what works? It’s unlikely, but that doesn’t mean a billionaire who surrounds himself with yes men will believe otherwise.


> When Musk tried to run part of this plan at X.com, it was a disaster. Users weren’t interested in his “Amazon of financial services”; they wanted to use PayPal.


> Then, after the merger, he made a poor decision to place a $1,000 lifetime credit card spending limit on PayPal that caused uproar among users. In The PayPal Wars, former PayPal employee Eric Jackson describes how they immediately had to backtrack on it. Musk has already had to correct aspects of paid verification after a botched rollout, but it also brings to mind the flawed plan to charge for API access on Twitter and the new account usage limits


> Musk had a few major obsessions, and regardless of how clear it was they weren’t working, he not only couldn’t let go of them, but, just like today, would not tolerate dissent on those matters.


> Musk pushed forward with trying to get rid of the PayPal name. He also wouldn’t abandon his financial services dream, even though it wasn’t working. Then there was the technical question: PayPal used Linux, while X.com was on Microsoft. To merge the services, Musk proposed a “V2” plan where PayPal would be completely rewritten and all development would be paused in the process. For months, the teams worked on the rewrite, but it kept missing deadlines while large sums of money were being lost to fraud. Finally, in the face of these issues, employees at the company organized to oust Musk and bring Thiel back as CEO. Thiel quickly scrapped the V2 rewrite, began to wind down X.com’s financial services (especially after finding X.com full of “bogus accounts and bad debt,” according to Jackson), and focused the branding on PayPal. Musk was ousted because he couldn’t take advice, or realize when his ideas weren’t working.


> A Twitter employee recently told Platformer that Musk is causing chaos at the company because “he really doesn’t like to believe that there is anything in technology that he doesn’t know, and that’s frustrating.”


> As Elon Musk’s reputation is revealed to be more marketing than reality, looking back at his history is instructive. While he had big ideas, he was eventually ousted at Zip2 and X.com because he was a bad leader and didn’t make good business decisions. But he got rich despite those failures and built his reputation in the process so that by the time he started SpaceX and took over Tesla, it was much harder to pry him from the chief executive seat if he didn’t want to leave.


> In the decades after PayPal, digital technology companies were not only showered in cash, but were judged on their future potential rather than their business fundamentals. That allowed them to more easily access capital to take on and price out traditional incumbents. In a sense, it was a self-fulfilling prophecy that “tech” would take over as long as an absolute moron wasn’t at the helm (and maybe even then they could pull something off).


> He’s repeating the mistakes of his past by entering an industry he doesn’t understand with big ideas, being unable to listen to feedback, holding onto strategies that aren’t working, and treating his employees like trash. People tend not to bet against Elon Musk, but if there was ever a time to believe things may stop going his way, this is probably it.
