### 11:05

### On Algorithmic Monkeys with Typewriters

Author: Marc
URL: https://atthis.link/blog/2023/41625.html
Publication Date: 22 Jan 2023

- Writing forces you to organise your thoughts and understanding into something that doesn't just clarify your own thinking, but makes it understandable enough for someone else (your assessor) to understand too.
- writing forces you to wrestle your understanding into something clear enough and consistent enough to put into words.
- it's important to acknowledge that writing doesn't work for everyone. Whether because they have a different learning style or just don't enjoy the act of writing. Figuring out how to join various ideas together, how to successfully argue a point, how to weave together a dozen or more different references; writing can be, and often is, hard.
- Is this just a new direction for the kinds of AI we already use daily but rarely notice? The likes of your spell checker, predictive text, or intelligent replies? Or does it point towards a more foundational change in the way we approach writing? AI continues to work its way into new fields and to improve at a break-neck pace. But, as always, we need to be mindful of how we're applying these technologies. AI can only ever be as good as the data we feed it and so we need to be mindful about what our language models do and don't know about. By making AI much more deeply connected with the writing process we risk students shaping their understanding based upon the narrow window of the world that language models tend to have.
